1.	Comparison Assignment: Flat File Systems vs. Relational Database:
a. Structure: in flat file system: data are sorted in one structured table or text file without define their meta data such as: primary key,
in Relational Database are sorted in multiple structured tables with define their meta data such as: primary key.
b .Data Redundancy: flat file system: there are alt of duplicates due to values that are repeated  in recodes , 
in Relational Database: there is few duplicates by do linking tables.
c. Relationships: flat file system: data are unlinked and independent so there no relationships,
Relational Database: data are connecting to multiple tables by using primary key which make relationships in the database
d .Usage: Flat File Systems: use simple database and small applications,
in Relational Database: use big database and applications such as: Bank system
e. drawbacks: in flat file system : easy to solve problems but not suitable  for large usage.
in Relational Database: difficult solve problems but suitable for large usage.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.3.Roles in a Database System:
System analyst: gather the requirements by understand business needs and translated them to requirements.
Database Designer: drew the tables using ERD which stand to entity relationships diagrams in order to represent data relationships.
Database Developer: implements the actual database including: tables and others. also Database Developer writes SQL queries.
Database Administrator: set up software of the database. Also put permissions for control the user access in order to enhance the security .
Application Developer:  Builds applications and connects the applications to the database by using APIs (Application Programming interfaces)  or ORM(object relation object) tools 
BI (Business Intelligence) Developer: do reporting  of the database system , and do design and manage data warehouse(distribution centers)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
4.Types of Databases:

Relational Database:
stores the data in in tables within rows and columns and use SQL for make queries.
use cases : Bank system 
Examples: MySQL

Non-Relational Database: 
stores the data in flexible format documents, and  graphs.
suitable for large usage 
use cases: Social media feeds
Examples: MongoDB (document-based)

Centralized vs. Distributed vs. Cloud Databases:
Centralized Database: stores data in one location and this type facilitate to secure and manage the database.
use cases: Small businesses

Distributed Databases:
Date sorted in multiple locations and it is easy to access the data.
use cases: Global e-commerce platforms

Cloud Databases:
it managed by providers like AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud.it allows users to scale up or down the resources.
Use case: modern applications.
------------------------------------------------------------
5.Cloud Storage and Databases:
a. is a service that allow users to save their digital data such as: files, photos, or videos on remote servers over the internet.
by providing scalable  and accessible infrastructure in order to store the data.so, it offers automated backups. 

b. Advantages of using cloud based databases:
1. Accessibility:  users can access the data from anywhere over the internet.
2. Enhanced security: by providing multi layered security and encryption, the cloud storage secure the data from any attack
3. Reduced operational overhead: by using cloud storage, the system less need to power and physical space.
sensitive or private information
c. Disadvantages or challenges with cloud-based databases:
1. Data exposures: because of poor configuration or inside threats, data could be breaches which means that the sensitive or private data could be stolen
exposed without authorization.
2.Internet and dependency: if there is no internet , so users can not access to the database.
3.cost of using cloud storage is expensive.


 






